-President Trump is turning
on some of his closest allies
while standing by the one
that pays him, Saudi Arabia.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump did a sit-down interview
with Fox News over the weekend,
and in that interview,
he said some things
that might technically
qualify as news.
But one thing he said
that was news to nobody
was when he described
his decision-making process
and made clear
he doesn't really have one.
-When you're sitting at the
desk, how do you make decisions?
I mean,
do you agonize over them?
Do you second-guess yourself?
-I don't think about it.
I don't think about
how I make them.
-Yeah, yeah, we know.
[ Laughter ]
It's one of the symptoms.
I imagine Trump makes decisions
the same way Netflix's algorithm
suggests something
totally random for you to watch.
"Did you enjoy
the migrant caravan?
Then you might also like
raking in Finland."
[ Laughter ]
So while there's no process
to Donald Trump's decision,
there is one central operating
principle, and that's loyalty.
Doesn't matter who you are
or how decorated you are,
all Trump cares about
is whether you are nice to him
or mean to him.
That's why Trump attacked
retired Admiral William McRaven,
a Navy S.E.A.L.
who oversaw the operation
to kill Osama bin Laden.
McRaven has criticized
Trump's attacks on the press,
calling him
a threat to democracy,
but when Trump was asked
about McRaven
he falsely accused him of being
a Hillary Clinton supporter
just because Hillary
had reportedly considered him
as a possible running mate
in 2016.
-Bill McRaven, retired admiral,
Navy S.E.A.L., 37 years,
former head
of U.S. Special Operations --
-Hillary Clinton fan.
-Special Operations --
-Excuse me --
Hillary Clinton fan.
-I'm so happy we have a
president who blurts stuff out
like a "Price is Right"
audience member.
"Hillary Clinton!
$1!"
[ Laughter ]
Trump has also tried
to weaponize
the criminal justice system
against his political opponents.
For the same reason
he attacked McRaven,
he wants to punish them
for their disloyalty,
and he's being egged on
by Fox News.
Yesterday,
"The New York Times" reported
that Trump wanted to order
the Justice Department
to prosecute James Comey
and Hillary Clinton.
Some of his more vocal
supporters stirred his anger,
including the Fox News
commentator Jeanine Pirro,
who has railed repeatedly
on her weekly show
that the President
is being ill-served
by the Justice Department.
So not only is the President
a wannabe dictator
who thinks
he can jail whoever he wants,
he also genuinely believes
all the insane stuff
he sees on Fox News.
Trump probably
sits there all day,
watching Fox
and shouting to his aides,
"Prosecute Hillary!
Stop the caravan!
And ask my doctor is Otezla
is right for me!"
[ Laughter ]
"Why can't I have Otezla?"
Trump doesn't care that Hillary
didn't actually break any laws
or that McRaven is Navy S.E.A.L.
and decorated military hero
who led a mission to kill the
world's most wanted terrorist.
All that matters to Trump
is whether you're loyal.
And sure enough,
Trump is now questioning
the loyalty of the man who was,
constitutionally speaking,
closer to him than anyone else
in the federal government.
-In recent weeks,
with his electoral prospects
two years from now
much on his mind,
Mr. Trump has focused
on the person
who has most publicly
tethered his fortunes to him.
In one conversation
after another,
he has asked aides and advisers
a pointed question --
"Is Mike Pence loyal?"
-Damn.
Now he's questioning Mike Pence?
How paranoid can you be?
Mike Pence has spent two years
doing everything he can
to suck up to Trump.
I mean, he literally copies
Trump's physical mannerisms.
Remember that time Trump
put his water bottle
on the ground during a meeting
and then Pence immediately
did the same thing?
[ Laughter ]
I mean, look at that --
Pence is like a pageant mom
who's doing
his daughter's routine
along with her
from the audience.
"And clap, then spin,
then step, step, step,
then jazz hands, jazz hands,
jazz hands.
For Trump,
loyalty only goes one way,
and there's no better
example of that
than the man who's arguably
closer to Trump
than anyone else in the world,
Fox News host Sean Hannity.
Just to give you an idea of
how loyal Hannity is to Trump,
it was reported a few months ago
that Hannity
has Trump's direct phone line
and they talk
multiple times a day,
including after
the Fox News host
wraps up taping his show
most weeknights.
Can you imagine
that conversation?
It's probably
the phone call version
of two dogs
sniffing each other's butts.
[ Laughter ]
And everyone in the White House
knows it's happening,
because Trump will walk around,
flaunting the fact
that Hannity
calls him every day.
White House staff are aware
that the calls happen
entering a room and announcing,
"I just hung up with Hannity."
[ Laughter ]
No one has parlayed
the President
into less impressive
celebrity friends.
I mean, JFK used the presidency
to hang out with Marilyn Monroe.
Trump plays phone a friend
with the human embodiment
of a Christmas ham.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Sean Ham-ity.
So that's how close --
[ Laughter ]
That's how --
That's how close those two are,
or at least, that's how close
Hannity thought they were
until last week, when
"The Daily Beast" reported
that Trump calls Hannity
a suck-up behind his back.
Trump has repeatedly made fun of
Hannity's interviewing skills
and called Hannity's
softball questions dumb.
Now, I think I know
what Hannity did to anger Trump.
You see, Hannity has spent hours
on his show defending Trump
from one
especially salacious rumor
about a certain sex act
in a Moscow hotel room,
a rumor so salacious
that we will not stoop
to repeat the details of it here
on this show.
But as we pointed out before,
Sean Hannity often repeats
all the embarrassing details
of that specific rumor
on his TV show, which is watched
by millions of people,
and I feel like it might have
started to annoy Trump,
because Hannity --
Hannity just won't let it go.
-Remember, that's the dossier
that talked about Trump
at a Ritz-Carlton in Moscow
with two prostitutes
urinating on his bed.
The fake document about
President Trump,
and that goes
to the Ritz-Carlton,
and that goes to hookers.
Russians and the Ritz-Carlton
and hookers.
You know, talking about hookers
and urinating in beds.
Hookers, Ritz-Carlton,
urinating on a bed.
The Ritz-Carlton and hookers.
Russian hookers.
Trump, hookers, hookers,
hookers, hookers, hookers,
hookers, hookers, hookers
urinating in his bed.
Peeing, urinating, urinating,
urinating, urinating,
urinating, urinating.
Hookers at a Ritz-Carlton
in Moscow urinating in the bed.
Employing a number
of prostitutes
to perform golden showers,
in other words, urination.
-So, Hannity thought it was
a good idea to go on his show
and read in detail the single
most embarrassing rumor
about his friend, the president.
I mean, now I know
why Trump is mad at him.
Or should I say pissed?
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
Whether it's Hannity or Pence,
anyone who gets close to Trump
eventually learns his loyalty
has a limit.
There's really only one way
to ensure that Trump
will stand by you,
no matter what,
and that's simple --
to pay him off.
That's the lesson Saudi Arabia's
learning this week
amid a firestorm over the murder
of "Washington Post" columnist
and U.S. resident
Jamal Khashoggi.
We know for a fact
that Trump has financial ties
to Saudi Arabia
because he told us.
-I love the Saudis.
Many are in this building.
Saudi Arabia, and I get along
great with all of them.
They buy apartments from me.
They spend $40 million,
$50 million.
Am I supposed to dislike them?
I like them very much.
-Saudi Arabia --
I like the Saudis.
They're very nice.
I make a lot of money with them.
They buy all sorts of my stuff,
all kinds of toys from Trump.
-Toys?
He sounds like a guy on the
street selling knockoff LEGOs.
"They don't snap together.
You got to use duct tape."
[ Laughter ]
Trump's financial ties
to Saudi Arabia
might explain
why he's been so reluctant
to condemn the kingdom
for murdering a journalist
and U.S. Resident.
Yesterday, Trump was asked why
he was siding
with the oppressive regime
over his own
intelligence agencies,
and he gave an answer
that made no sense whatsoever.
-Why are you siding
with the Saudis
over your own
intelligence agencies?
-Because it's America first,
to me.
It's all about America first.
-No, that's not America first.
That's Saudi Arabia first.
This guy is George Orwell's
worst nightmare,
including the fact
that his brain
stopped developing in 1984.
[ Laughter ]
The President
is an authoritarian
who demands loyalty
and punishes his enemies.
He'll turn on
even the people closest to him,
but he'll stand by you
as long as you shower him
with gold,
also known as...
-Golden showers.
-This has been
"A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]